#Risk Management framework
The core policy is to minimize all risks involved by operating with expert knowledge of the regulatory climate, human safety as the primary focus of each mission, and the fostering of good-will and positive image of unmanned aerial systems in our community. In order to satisfy this policy we offer key standards for risk mitigation. Key standards of The Petitioner’s Risk Management Strategy are as follows:


1. **Regulation is changing quickly**. Regulatory landscape of unmanned aerial systems is changing quickly. Regulatory oversight is the responsibility each team member. Understand the regulations, subscribe to information about their changes, and review them frequently.

2. **There is no substitute for experience**. To operate an Unmanned Aerial System for purposes outside of training the Remote Operator's Certificate is available as of August 2016, but that is not the same as flying a manned aircraft.  Serious commercial sUAS operators should demand pilots with FAA Private Pilot Certificates, a current Medical Certificate, meet the currency requirements for daytime VFR, and have a minimum of 100 hours as Pilot In Command of a Single Engine Aircraft.

3. **Skills depreciate with time**.  To operate Unmanned Aerial Systems for purposes outside of training, maintain internal currency requirements for flight minutes and skills with specific aircraft models. Operators should develop a formalized training program framework for assurance of skills that includes flight patterns and maneuvers each pilot is expected to perform to satisfactory requirements.

4. **Planning before preflight**. Although a thorough preflight is integral to safe flight, it is part of a greater mission plan. The mission plan integrates segregation of duties, formal project management with pre-defined milestones, and assurance. The complete process enables operators to manage customer expectations, activities, and deliverables safely.

5. **Empower the crew**. With formal structure comes authority. Borrowing from the notions of Crew Resource Management, operations crews are encouraged to speak up and make decisions, especially where safety is a concern. Commercial missions can be aborted or altered citing safety at anytime without negative consequences. The typical “customer is always right” does not apply to our mission operations crew.

6. **Positive image is key to success**. Mission operations will undoubtedly cause some concern within the community. Appropriate signage, contact information, professional attire, and general visibility are integral to community acceptance of our operations. Proactive engagement through awareness, advocacy, and volunteer training programs will serve as means to fostering goodwill among the communities that may see our unmanned aerial systems in the sky above.

7. **Proper tools**. Not all drones are created equal.  Commercial sUAS operators ought to use purpose-built systems that fit the missions and scope of the operations.  Nearly all missions conducted in the NAS should be done using quad-copters capable of self-hover, have historically passed FAA regulatory exemptions for the application, supply on-battery logic for assessing status and log cycles and cell integrity, offer a “return to home” feature, permit control of camera to a 2nd crew-person, have demonstrated controlled flight in winds of 10m/s, have documented maintenance procedures, pass preflight inspection, and are deemed appropriate for the mission by the nominated flight director.

8. **Unexpected is expected**. The risk management standards give drone pilots the ability to improvise when needed. Weather conditions can change, customer demands may shift, logistical challenges may impact mission operations, emergencies may occur. The Petitioner trusts the Pilot In Command to make the right choices, with human safety being the first priority, property safety being second, and the safety of our equipment being the last concern. Despite all best efforts, incidents and accidents can happen. This is why all commercial drone operator carry sufficient Liability Insurance and also insurance on our unmanned aerial systems to protect anyone and anything harmed by our operations.
